---
layout: post
title:  "The Mind Equivalence"
date:   2023-02-28 16:08:53 +0300
categories: computation mind self-reference philosophy mathematics
---
What if one had knowledge of a mind equation? Here what we mean by mind equation is a mathematical (or any other abstraction) structure that maps
faithfully to the human mind. How would this sense change the being of the system that possesses that equivalence? We have mentioned a lot of concepts in
trying to define the question of mind equivalence. We aim to expound on them in the rest of the post.

What does mapping faithfully to the human mind imply? This means that we are assuming that in a certain abstract space the human mind has a representation
in the language of the abstract system, the same way in which Einstein's space-time continuum could be represented in the [ruliad](https://mathworld.
wolfram.com/Ruliad.html). Given that we could have this representation in some abstraction, the question we are posing is what would it mean for the
reality of an actual human to have this representation in their own mind. Would that mean that they have 'two minds'? In a certain sense this is already
the case, consider the case of the self, this is usually a manifestation of what the human being thinks of themselves. This can change depending on the
information the human being has used to create this self. This could range from social cues, like how people in their social circle continually perceive
them, to other nuanced methods of viewing themselves. In modern language this is usually referred to as the ego. Some people have had experiences where
they loose this ego and have what many describe as ego-death. We argue that this view of oneself is in some ways compression of who they are. This is
somewhat similar to what we are referring to by saying mind equivalence, it is a lens through which one can map their human mind to itself, self-reference.
What we are asking is what if we had a way to capture all those selves in a mathematical equation that is dynamically defined so as to capture the ever
changing notion of the self. This structure would by its very nature be able to come up with another representation of itself, and that representation
would also be able to conjure another similar definition and so on and so forth.

Let's bring in computers to the equation. We can assume for the sake of making a point that the human(and perhaps any other sort) mind is a computing
machine. What does it compute? Is that even a good sense of the concept of computing? Instead of thinking of computers as systems that necessarily produce
results, i.e they are a sort of pipeline and they exist so as to serve the requirements of the user or programmer. What if we used the notion of computers
as beings i.e they have a structural functional form, they fit in the universe in a particular way depending on the context. Now what is the point of
being? Okay, just a reality check, how does this relate to the question of mind equivalence, we promise that it does, but we rather prefer to take the more
scenic route.

Being is a verb, like doing something, which is be. Being can take many forms depending on what is doing the being. It requires a certain fitness to the
world that affords a being to continue being. The fact that being is a continuous process in the world and that we know that the world is constantly
changing then we can conclude that being is also constantly changing. Tying this to our feeling of computers as being systems means that they are always
changing. That seems to be true when we consider the mind as a computing machine, the mind is always changing, consider how many 'perspective' a human
takes in the course of a meeting or a conversation or relationship. That's a simple example of how change can be realized in the mind. Another more
interesting change is where the mind changes how it's being a mind. What does that even mean? One may ask and frankly we currently don't have a very
satisfactory answer but we can give an example to get a grasp on what we are implying. Consider a human being in a romantic relationship, the self they
bring into the arena of the relationship may change depending on what mind they are using. They might bring a kind self, a remorseful self, a loving self,
a jealous self, a fearful self and other minds which they might create in order to part of the relationship. What information or processes is the self
using to bring these other selves to the relationship? This is what we mean by the mind changing how it's being a mind. It how it changes what it finds
most salience in the informational landscape available to it.

Taking the above example imagine taking all the ways in which the mind can become a self (mind) and have them represented as a dynamical mathematical
structure, this is what we have in mind when we say a mind equivalence. Note that this does not mean that this is the *way* of expressing what a mind is,
given that it is a dynamical system, even the way that we come to sense it could change depending on the information available,this information can be
understood as an environment or context. Now how would a human mind change how it becomes a mind when it has, in a sense incorporated this
psycho-technology? This is what we are wondering about when we asked about how the knowledge of a mind equation changes the self.

We currently don't have a fully formed answer but when we do we'll be considerate to share it. In the meantime you can ponder what this all means, consider
how humans would interact with each other if they all had this knowledge? Thank you, we see you in the future.
